PL SQL and SQL Communicate as follows : To run select into or DML statement , the PL SQL engine sends the query or DML statement to the SQL engine.
The SQL engine runs the query or DML statement and returns the result to the PL SQL engine.

Within oracle there are two engines that executes the code
PL SQL Engine -> executes all procedural code
SQL Engine -> executes all sql statements

Binding
Assigning values to PL/SQL variables that appear in SQL statements is called binding.

What is Context Switching?
  Whenever you write a PL/SQL block or say a PL/SQL program and execute it, the PL/SQL runtime engine starts processing it line by line.
  This engine processes all the PL/SQL statements by itself but it passes all the SQL statements which you have coded into that PL/SQL block to the SQL runtime engine. 
  Those SQL statements will then get processed separately by the SQL engine. Once it is done processing them the SQL engine then returns the result back to the PL/SQL 
  engine.So that a combined result can be produced by the latter. This to and fro hopping of control is called context switching.
  For eg: in the below program the control swithces between PL SQL engine and SQL engine 1000 times.
  
  Declare 
  lv_name varchar2(100);
  Begin
  For I in 1..1000 loop
  select ename into lv_name from emp where empno =I;
  end loop;
  end;
  
How does context switching affect the query performance?
  Context switching has a direct impact on the performance of the query. The higher the hopping of controls the greater will be the overhead which
  in turn will degrade the performance. This means that lesser the context switching better will be the query performance.
  
Bulk Binding
  Bulk binding is a process by which entire sql statement information will be binded back to PL SQL variable in a single switch or fewer no of switches.
  
Types of Binding
in-bind-> the value from PL SQL engine is assigned to SQL engine. eg:insert , merge , update statements stores pl sql variable in the database.
when a collection variable is used to transfer from dml content data to table, it is called in bind. Using Forall statement the inbind operation can be performed.

out-bind-> from SQL statements information is returned back to PL SQL variable. eg : returning into clause of an insert, update,delete statement.
when dml operation is performed and modified data/(result of a dml statement) has to be put into a collection , outbind happens. 
using (returning clause,bulk  collectect into) with dml statement this is accomplished.

Define -> When a select or fetch statement is used in a loop. assigns db value to a PL SQL variable.
whenever we want to hold output of select statement/cursor fetch statement in a plsql collection variable. bulk collect into statement is used for doing this.

Bulk data Processing
  For in binds and out binds , bulk SQL uses bulk binding , that is , it binds entire collection of values at once.
  A query that uses bulk SQL can return any number of rows , without using a FETCH statement for each one.
  To implement bulk binding oracle provides two statements
    Bulk Collect Clause
    Forll Statement
  The process of fetching batches of data from PL/SQL runtime engine to SQL engine and vice versa is called Bulk Data Processing

How many bulk data processing statements do we have?
We have one bulk data processing clause which is Bulk Collect and one bulk data processing statement which is FORALL in Oracle Database
  

Bulk collect is all about reducing context switches and improving the performance of the query.

